the prophet Muhammad s. wasallam told us
whoever builds a mosque for Allah Allah
will build for him a similar house in
jenah and we know the great reward that
will not only be gained but rather will
fill your grave after your death
whenever someone prays there whenever
someone gives shahada in the Masid
whenever someone learns something in the
Masid yes that will be something that
you will have on your scale
[Music]
how are you guys doing and welcome to
another episode of the MH podcast the
most inconsistent
podcast in the da space and probably in
the internet but what we're who we're
with today is a man responsible for a
podcast the blood blurs podcast that I
usually come onto his uh podcast who
which is actually a very consistent and
fantastic podcast so if you mallah you
do a very good job and also uh one of
the chief editors in Five Pillars um
somebody who's well qualified um M you
people don't know your actual academic
background you've you've done an
international relations degree haven't
you ba in politics and an MA in print
journalism that's fantastic and he's
also mallah being a journalist for how
how many years has it been 13 now 13
years 13 years and actually to be honest
like in terms of people that are
representing the conservative Islamic
POS the normative position the
traditional position I don't really know
many other people that are doing it like
Five Pillars I have to say I have to say
that that you know even recently when
you went to and we'll talk about this I
guess Syria I mean I was quite worried
on your behalf and thinking what he's
going to a place like this and this
isn't this was isn't this a war zone or
you did but this is the kind of thing
that separates you I think from the
crowd tell me of your experience
generally speaking when you went to
Syria yeah sir was mad bro alhamdulillah
I mean I remember before I set off you
said to me D is it safe yes
speak to your lawyers and all that which
I did of course I exhausted all due
diligence before I flew out because even
though on paper I might be the same as
Jeremy Bowen or a journalist from the
guardian the application of the law is
very different when you're a Muslim
journalist especially when you're
interpreting current affairs from a
standpoint of faith and that is one of
the most challenging things to do bro is
when you look at current affairs and
trying to cover it from a moral compass
of your faith secular newspapers will do
it from their secular moral compass and
one of the biggest challenges is
covering news from a Muslim and Islamic
perspective cuz you know we're not one
monolith either and Syria happens to be
one of those conflicts which polarizes
views it polarizes allies uh but the
trip itself uh Subhan Allah was uh it
was eye opening really because you know
what was what was the like Vibe like
what it was it vibrant were people happy
how did you feel jubilant really really
jubilan I I cannot represent anything
else except that people were over the
moon ecstatic excited happy yes there is
worries and concerns as in is this
really happening 54 years we lived on
bards yeah I've never seen foreign
Fighters loved respected so much um they
were being given roses they were given
Bava um the foreign Fighters what what
kind of countries were they from so
there were European Fighters um I met a
few Germans Dutch I met a few Brits out
there really yeah yeah but the vast
majority of the muajin they come from
like the m
from Libya from Tunisia in Egypt yeah
and other parts but it's a mix but the
biggest group of non Syrian Fighters are
the UR wah yeah wah and how did they how
did you feel with them like you interact
with them Subhan Allah these these
brothers like they are a jamama upon
themselves and the positive thing which
I and the consistent thing which I got
from the leadership in my engagements
with them often on camera is that these
non- Syrian fighters who sacrificed gave
their blood life made Hijra they will be
given citizenship and they'll probably
be incorporated into the new Syrian
National Army now hijab clock this
people are going to be waking up in
Damascus and they're going to be finding
Turks walking around in Damascus like
they've gone back a thousand years I
think a lot of Turks as well oh the tur
yeah tur and Turk men yeah so it's in
terms of Optics that's that's a strong
omatic optic a thousand years ago there
were Turks and mamluks floating about in
the city of Damascus guarding it and a
thousand years later but also now with
all the T the the immigration Syrian
immigration to Turkey yes now it's kind
of like not turkey but you know you've
got turkey people of some sort 100%
people are jubilent bro the very fact
that we've got tens and thousands of
syrians trying to cross over the border
to return to their rubbled homes yeah
shows the European right Wingers
actually that when a country is stable
and secure and it's not destabilized
through sanctions on Wars there's no
reason for people to come here I
remember one time you told what's that
famous American female content creator
what was she call Michela Peterson the
other one you shared a panel with her
she has quite a sizable following
volleyball player oh a pear pear I
remember you said to pear that listen
don't think these people are coming for
European freedoms yeah it's it's nearly
entirely economics they're coming here
for financial stability they're coming
here because lives back home are not so
great so syrians were jubilant they're
excited they're celebrating they're
happy and are these groups that
mentioned like the Wagers and the you
know the foreign Fighters are they all
part of HTS or are they part of other
mil militias or what are they they are
generally part of her which is a
prescribed terrorist group as we speak
under UK law and the UN and the us but
they also well they're looking into that
they want to that's been yes yes that's
been considerably uh reviewed and I
believe the de prescription is only a
matter of weeks let Al on months I mean
the $10 million bounty on top of Al
jilani's head that's been removed MH so
a lot is we'll get to that but generally
hijab are happy they're over the moon
and it was Damascus you went or did you
go to other places went to Damascus went
to H
went and how was there any similar what
are the similarities and differences
between different cities so holes
obviously the burial place and the
resting place
of Holmes was very unique in the sense
that it was the only city that was
entirely liberated by the rebel factions
but then subsequently it was the only
city in the whole of Sy that was
entirely besieged and decimated so
you'll see that um in a video that I'm
going to release in the coming days that
I'm on top of thein Masid which has been
renovated after it was attacked by regim
forces but the entirety of hes decimate
bro you know the you know the scenery
that we seeing in Gaza yeah um you know
Rubble destruction 60 70% of syrians
already like that we forget that for 13
years the regime forces as well as
Russia has been pounding pounding
pounding so yeah homes obviously the
burial place the be the nucleus of the
Syrian Revolution were you in a hotel
there or um no no I stayed in local
places it yeah I stay in local but in
Damascus I stayed in a hotel I said
Sheran because there was a certain buzz
in the air with so many International
journalists AP Reuters BBC CNN
everyone's floating about you've got
undercover um Security Services from
different countries and diplomats yeah
yeah yeah there there's there's a
completely different vibe in Damascus so
many people queuing up to meet the new
transitional head of government Al
julani it's mad that I sometimes find it
quite surprising that he's just walking
around sometimes without any like
protection or seemingly without any
protection yes no he is he does someone
can just snipe him no yeah absolutely
just just the other day he jumped into a
car and he drove hakan fidan the foreign
minister of turkey in a car to B Ami and
just just like that just like that
having a coffee so what what's what is
the what what's the reasoning behind
that um I think obviously there is a
veneer of legitimacy in the sense that
well I am the man who has led operation
deterring aggression um I am the man
that you now have to deal with in Syria
now critics and Skeptics will say oh
this is the guy that America and Israel
have placed and planted there uh I'm yet
what do you think I mean let's get to
that now then let's do it you you met
with with HTS or the members of HTS did
you meet with joani as well yes I met
with him I spent an hour with him really
yeah okay so let me ask you this I mean
you're quite good at reading people sure
you're you've been a journalist for a
long time if there's anyone that's going
to be able to read somebody lawyers and
journalists and interrogated police
officers I try my best yeah what do you
think what is he there's two there's two
kind of let's say extreme
interpretations one of them is that he's
like some kind of a savior likeah and
the other one is that he's an agent
actually put in place by the Americans
uh and Israel itself MH do you do you
subscribe to any of that or do you think
that the truth is somewhere in the
middle if what's your what's your
impression because of the extremities of
both both positions he's either the next
Liberator of or that he's an American
stent agent they're so extreme that
there barely evidence to substantiate
those claims the truth is this um when I
met him and the aura and the vibe that I
got from him is that he's someone who at
the time when I met him looked very
tired and exhausted um he's definitely a
Statesman and a leader of the state in
the making if not already made and I'll
tell you how the the answers to the
questions were diplomatic they were they
were but not direct and that's the
Hallmark of a politician in the Mak now
whether that's a good thing or a bad
thing it's is a complet different
conversation the fact that people
thought that this would be someone who'd
either remain in military gar in the
haki Garb or in a TH or some religious
atar but now he's wearing three-piece
suits and a tie um so there's all these
kind of Optics he didn't give me the the
initial feeling that this is the next
Liberator of Al but then what does that
feeling ever mean right and nor did he
give me the vibe that this was a western
stoe I think those very extreme
positions but what I felt was that he
has clearly been preparing himself to
lead this country okay uh because there
is no way that overnight he's able to
engage with and host at such high level
uh foreign dignitaries and diplomats if
this was just a jungle Jihadi that's
been hiding in the enclaves of idlib do
you understand so he's been preparing so
how do you think that that process took
place I mean if did do you think he knew
that this cuz there are some videos of
him before this event took place saying
that we're going to be liberated in this
time so did did you think that he how
did he know that so between 2019 and
2024 they've all said that we've been
preparing yeah because Les we forget
that within a year of the Syrian
revolutions the rebels had taken 60%
it's not as if they are new to the
position of of gaining a lot of
territory but the infighting the
introduction uh or the emergence of Isis
uh the US Le Coalition bombing Russia
into you know getting involved in 2016
all of that major setbacks they've
learned from the lessons of infighting
they've learned from the lessons of
Guerilla Warfare and urban Warfare with
hisbah and Iranian militias so they said
that between 2019 to 2024 there's been
immense preparation learning from
mistakes unifying the ranks producing
domestically manufactured Weaponry like
UAV and Shaheen drones and AI based uh
in do do they have power like do know
you know the aircraft do how to do they
have aircrafts and did they have to use
them Maj well majority of you has been
now bombed by Israel yeah majority 80%
of of Syria's kind of heavy strategic
military um Armament has been quite
similar to what they did in the sixth
day war yes but the but the but the
rebel factions the rebel Fighters under
HS leadership basically said that these
are Weaponry that we've never had
experience of and we managed to topple
Assad without this okay so and they seem
very confident that countries like
turkey and maybe qat even will
help the rearmament process and the
future of Modern Warfare hijab is that
we're moving away from there's even like
American critics of the F-16 and the F35
saying it's way too costly it's way too
resource heavy it's way too heavy on oil
and all this kind of stuff now it's what
drone Warfare now it's drone Warfare UAV
artificial intelligence that's that is
the future of warfare and we're seeing
that play out in Ukraine we we've seen
this play out in Syria when they took
halip and they took homes they managed
to retrieve some of the key Telecom
locations of the regime and they saw
there that they had dated Soviet
equipment where they were dialing like
this it was like from a Rambo movie so
they said look we've been preparing
militarily we've been preparing morally
spiritually uh and understanding that
you know these were the mistakes that we
made against the Iranians and the hisbah
this is how they fight in this terrain
and so forth but the initial plan was
just to take Aleppo but when Aleppo fell
within 24 hours with little fight then
they marched to hums and when they
marched to hums is that if homs fell
Damascus would only fall in a matter of
days because once homes Falls if you
look at in a map it strangles Damascus
from the only land route that Iran has
through the area of qua which is like so
Iran up until now had a land route where
he could basically send reinforcements
and weapons through Syria into Lebanon
via qua I think I've pronounced it
properly if I haven't do correct me um
so all of that's now go gone for Iran
and when they took HS taking Damascus
only a matter of days 12 days they took
80% of Syria so there are different kind
of inter interpretations of this I've
heard some people say uh well actually
it was all Putin's doing in a sense that
he decided that he doesn't want to back
Bashar anymore MH and it's not the
rebels that were to be given credit here
if you want to give any credit to
anybody you can give it to Putin himself
it's almost like you know Bashar Al
Assad was some kind of an employee who
got fired by Putin and the Iranians um
that's one interpretation that I've
heard what do you make of that I mean
the Russians can Flex that for damage uh
limitation the reality is this the
Syrian Arab Army was nearly entirely
propped up and maintained and preserved
by Foreign reinforcements whether that
be Iranian militias whether that be
hisbah Fighters or Russian air power and
the Strategic timing of operation
detering aggression they made no secret
about it they they launched it a day
after hisbah agreed the ceasefire with
Israel they did it knowing full well
that Russia is stretched out in Ukraine
they did it knowing full well that Iran
Iran had experienced multiple bloody
noses from from Israel so they chose the
timing of the weakness of the perceived
of axes of resistance to launch this
attack what Russia and Iran did when
they realized that the Syrian Arab Army
was not even fighting for themselves
that we are not going to sacrifice
Manpower if you're not going to fight
for this very country there were few air
strikes in homes and in hmer by the
Russians from their base in t but it was
nothing significant and of course so why
why is that then s why do you think that
the Syrian Army decided we don't want we
don't want to do this anymore because
the operation itself was so overwhelming
in that they simply were not prepared
for the multitude of attacks that were
happening including sleeper cells in
these said cities so even that took
preparation to prepare sleeper cells
that were literally you know immersed
within regime held cities and that there
would come a time where they would have
to be activated for those a sleeper
cells are basically resistance groups or
those who are fighting the regime from
within but pretending to be on the other
side um is something which is used in in
in classically been used throughout the
the the decades and centuries sleeper
cells is nothing new so they had people
who are already aligned to the rebel
groups in these cities going about their
daily lives as if they're part of the
regime or posing no threat and when that
time came they were activated and they
attacked from within the regime forces
were attacked straight on they were
pincered they were attacked from the
back they were surrounded but also the
rebel factions
uh consistently announced that there'd
be a general
amnesty that look defect you don't want
to lose that helps yeah yeah cuz it
helped the Taliban it helped the Taliban
in 2021 they did the same thing when
they took the most of Afghanistan in
August 20121 one of the things that
helped them was that they they declared
from the very onset that there's a
general amnesty put your guns down we
will not kill you and that also assisted
in taking large SES you think HS look to
Taliban sometimes for military kind of
like strategy there many lots of
comparisons have been made between
Afghanistan and I mean look just here um
there was a FaceTime call between Abdul
buy who's that oh the spokesperson
spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs giving salams and
congratulations to OB arut oh
okay oh
okay so you're there as well actually
yeah so there's a line of open but they
also realize that they're dealing with
two very different realities um even in
a recent BBC interview Mr sh Al julani
he said when he was asked about girls
education he goes look we're not
Afghanistan we're not a trial society
and that wasn't that wasn't even like a
swipe at the Taliban it was just that
we've got complet we're different that's
it and the Taliban have always
maintained no but that's that's totally
true because I think to in in the whole
of the Arab world that whole thing has
never really been an issue anywhere yeah
and maybe with this exception of a few
golf States back in the day but like in
the whole Arab world this education
thing has never been and the Le and the
Levant especially is always been like a
melting especially exactly that right so
yeah but I mean I mean just to just to
conclude look I don't want to take away
any agency from the efforts of of the
Syrian Rebel factions obviously you've
gotam and the various groups that fall
under its umbrella then you've got the
Syrian National Army who are backed
armed and funded by the Turks then
you've got the southern Rebels that came
from their are these guys are are
essentially funded and trained by the
UAE in Jordan and very pro-american so
you've got different factions who were
part of this operation but ultimately it
was HTS that were the most formidable
and successful in in gaining territory
what do you think of Al jolani himself
or do you think he's a sincere actor a
bad faith act what vibe did you get from
him as a person that's a hard one that
is hijab is a difficult one it is
difficult one because because you're
good at reading people you can see my
feelings was that he's got a huge task
at hand and only time will tell no but
as a as a person do you think this man
is
sincere do you see what I'm asking here
I mean you you can tell like you've
you've interviewed so many people before
do you think this man is sincere or do
you think he's
actually fundamentally about is it hard
to answer it's hard to answer I TR tell
you why it's hard to answer because um
even though I spent around an hour with
him which is based around question
answer it's not enough time there wasn't
enough personal interaction um but I
just think it's too it's too early early
to it's too early to tell also if I turn
around and say that he does give me
Salah Vibes right you'll have SR5 boot
in my door down saying you're inviting
support for for the leader of a
prescribed group but if turn but if turn
around say that he's a US agent you know
what evidence do I have that he gives me
the feeling of a stoe he doesn't does he
give you a feeling of that he's been
paid us V by the US an agent no he
didn't give me that Vibe he didn't give
you that VI he do you know what vibe he
gave me and the guys around him the
other brother that was what's his name
the the guy that part of the government
um OED arut yeah the the the head of the
political Bureau and the official
spokesman and all the other guys that I
met they didn't give me that Vibe should
I tell you what vibe they gave me they
gave me the vibe that this is a very
sensitive nature um situation and we've
got so many different parties to keep
happy because if if we upset one party
over the other what we've just achieved
can come crumbling down within days a
lot of political analysts are saying
that they're very shrewd actually they
I've seen a lot of High Praise in a way
from like Western
academics and uh journalists saying that
there joani is acting in a very clever
manner he's really assessing the
situation in a very clever manner did
you get that he was a very high IQ
individual that you know very shrewd
yeah and that's why I said to you that
the vibe that he gave me was that this
is a a leader of a state either in the
making or already made and there's no
way that he'd have learned this
overnight in a short space of time so
clearly there's been training and
preparation for this uh time now and
every answer that he gave was clinical
succinct but not answering directly and
that is the Hallmark of a competent
politician um but yeah he didn't give me
the vibe that this guy is an American
sto and you know his a Zionist stoe only
time will tell from policies and
positions that's the only time you can
judge a politician what do you think
they're going to do with
Israel so I asked him that I said look
is yeah I said I said look Israel is
attacking are you going to release this
yeah yeah it's already out would you
anyone yeah the thing is the interaction
itself wasn't recorded but the contents
of the conversation has been released
with pictures so you're not going to put
the one out of jolani no when I met
julani and we were in that closed
meeting we that that meeting was not
allowed to be filmed oh okay fine but
but the Q&A and the contents of the
conversations have been reported and
I've released it okay tell me now so
when you um did ask him about Israel in
jool when you asked him about Israel
what was what did he say going to war
with Israel is not a priority right now
what is a priority is unifying Syria
National Unity consolidating power uh in
the land that we've already controlled
and have
gained um reestablishing and and and you
know rest strengthening State
institutions and Ministries as a result
of the abrupt departure of the Assad
regime you know the the the state uh
functioning has to continue and that's a
priority right now did you get did you
get the feeling that this he was saying
it maybe as a strategy of War like
deception possibly because another thing
that he didn't say this but some of his
close guys said this to me they said
look I don't understand that after 13
years of a bloody war 600,000 people
have been killed that's a conservative
estimate 12 million displaced why are
people expecting from us in 11 days what
the Arab regimes have not done in 50
years and I think that's that's that's a
fair comment did who said who said that
um AR said that off camera okay he said
I don't you know a a lot of people said
that this is the the official spokesman
he said he said I don't understand like
the expectations from us in 11 days
we've only we've only gained Damascus in
11 12 days why are people expecting us I
think the reason why is because they're
an islamist government um that's and
these ones were nationalist government
secular so I think because they think
the ideological positioning is similar
Black Flag Army marching that's it and I
think that you know if especially if you
consult a lot of the classical Islamic
books say like you know the Jihad uh you
go to the borders so the ones who are
closest to that country they're the ones
who should it yeah so I mean that might
be a thing the reason why is there I
would even say that one of my attad
frustration of Minds was that okay fine
you're not going to wage war with Israel
or respond in any kind but perhaps some
some more assertive words of solidarity
with with Palestinians um being a bit
more scathing in in your criticism of
Israel would be better um it would be
received better I think some most
Muslims will understand the difficulties
of going to war with Israel especially
after we've seen 14 months of genocide
in Gaza so I think people can be
forgiving for that what they can't be so
forgiving about is either ignoring the
issue which they did you know it took
the transitional government nearly a
week to address it publicly think about
that Israel is making land incursions
has taken Mount Herman is 22 km south of
Damascus is shooting protesters in D and
a week later you've addressed the issue
and when you've addressed it you've
addressed it in a way in a bit of a Airy
fairy way um of course they've appealed
to the International Community and the
UN to to intervene and to ensure that
Israel abides by international law but
bro come on we've seen 14 months of what
the fast of international law means
especially in terms of application and
Israel's adherence to it it's a joke it
doesn't exist um but yeah I would have
hoped to have seen more firy words
against Israel um but I I didn't get
that so I felt that this pragat this
this pragmatic approach in dealing with
so many different constituencies who
would who would shape and influence the
future of Syria is the Quagmire they're
actually dealing with because I mean
they could make an international
relations argument for the Goan Heights
I mean obviously it's occupied territory
and the fact that the the buffer zone
above it has been also overtaken now and
they push forward and all the attacks
now that they've done so there's Syria
has a right to defend itself Syria has a
right to defend itself under Islamic law
and international law now as to why
they're not doing it it just came across
from the words of Mr Al Shar and Mr AR
both of them is that this is not
priority right now the priority is
National Unity to strengthen the
Ministries and the state functions and
consolidating a Law and Order and the
land that we've gained after 13 years of
of Bloodshed death and disrup so we have
to give things time absolutely I I think
I I I think criticize them in six months
in a year in two years but it's not even
been two weeks hijab do I mean do you
think it's fair to expect so much in two
weeks no I can see the argument I can
see the argument I can see the argument
on both sides cuz I thing is one could
argue I don't know about what you would
say but the issue is the biggest fear I
think for Syrian Society now for the
different groups is that they would
differ and fight in fight because you've
got so many different yes groups that
are kind of dissimilar in terms of
ideology and dissimilar sometimes in
terms of sect and so on so you know
sometimes it can be a thing to focus on
an external enemy so that you can plate
the internal strife and the internal uh
fighting that can happen between groups
um you don't when people say oh we don't
want Syria to be another Iraq or Libya
we've heard that quite often right since
since uh us been toppled well okay for
them to prevent it from being another
Libya or Iraq they need that time to
consolidate and and unify their ranks
because remember these Rebel factions
now who are armed they need to now
basically be integrated to form the new
National Army that is a huge process and
task at hand so when they're saying that
look we need to prioritize these things
it makes absolute sense because if you
don't prioritize those things and start
attacking Israel it can be argued that
that could be a devastating and
strategically uh very bad move because
you're absolutely correct you've got the
Syrian National Army who are ultimately
propped funded back by the Turks
directly this is no secret youve got the
Kurds right now
resisting resisting holding on to their
powers uh their lands in the East um
you've got the southern Rebels uh you've
got various factions most of whom are
eventually is Isis still there not
really not not at all really um there
might be some sleeper cells but they
don't control any land or they don't
have any significant uh presence on the
ground um but there is a concern that
once these free lands uh start operating
and functioning normally that's when
Isis will come to ruin the party as they
always do uh and I'm sure um external
entities with nefarious agendas will no
doubt activate groups like that to
ensure that Syria and the future Syria
will have further challenges but yeah I
mean to consolidate the ranks of the
Rebel factions for them to then form a
new National Army is that a priority or
is fighting Israel a priority especially
when 80% of its military capabilities
have been destroyed and most of the
Rebel faction and the fighters don't
have the knowledge how to operate the
said uh Weaponry that's been destroyed I
think we have to give them time I would
hope that there's more assertive and
scathing um words to make their position
clear that Syria will not tolerate this
um but for now there's a lot of
pragmatism and a lot of diplomacy you
know Al julani can be praised for that
and no doubt he will be criticized for
that as well okay and talking about
praise and criticism a lot of things on
Twitter have been praising and
criticizing you actually indeed um and
and me and everyone else but the point
is I think now um what people have seen
in the Pro Palestine movement is
somewhat of a split let's be honest yeah
uh um I had a couple of guys um Jason
Hinkle and some other people attack me
um I didn't really respond to it because
I just thought you know this is not what
we're looking for now to create some
kind of a rift or division so it's water
off ack's back um but did you ever see
Jackson HL and these guys as any
meaningful allies in this I I just you
know I appreciate the fact that he had a
pro Palestinian you know positioning
yeah and obviously he was one of the big
figures that were disseminating
information about Palestine
and I I think that in a way I don't want
to discourage that you know even CU I I
try to put myself as a secondary
priority now I mean in the beginning I
think I would have just been a bit more
knee-jerk about it and said you know F
you you know he's you know body shaming
me and all those kind of things is all
bringing the body out and you
know yeah yeah um but you know it was
what it was I mean um him and a few
other guys from my side you had I don't
know a couple of other guys so so so
obviously what's happened is I'm what
you're referring to correct me from
wrong is obviously the traditional
allies allies from the left um the kind
of
anti-war uh Anti-Imperialist leftists
and socialist So within that grouping
would follow Professor David Miller who
had that Landmark tribunal case uh
against Bristol University sure which
has set a legal precedent for anyone who
gets discriminated for holding
anti-israel views yeah we've obviously
had he's done good things he's done good
things there's no doubt that that that
legal case has has set a legal president
with no doubt will help Muslims and
non-muslims from moving forward anyone
who's discriminated for espousing
anti-israel Vi a good Pro Palestine Ally
at one point you know yeah of course and
as with as with George Galloway um as
with Max Blumenthal the grey Zone guys
uh there's been many figures and
individuals who in the last 14 months
you know everyone has kind of been
singing off the same him sheet and
that's ultimately advocating and being a
voice for the Palestinians that are
being genocided in Gaza yeah and
George's views on the ug situation
Galloway George Galloway's position on
the UG and the syri situation was no
secret right so it's so even when
whether you engaged him or when I
engaged him for the general elections
those views were no secret of his right
um but the surprise was the likes of
David Miller who in a podcast with me he
said he basically said to me the syrians
need to get over it right get over what
exactly the fact that they've been
defeated by Bashar Assad and and and
that they've that they were on the wrong
side and they rose up and they got
blasted for it so say that again who who
which syrians David Miller said to me in
a podcast when I asked him that look so
many syrians have died and suffered as a
result of they to get over there they
need to get over there that's that's
disgusting really that's disgusting
right cuz the Syrian people and the
Palestinian people are essentially the
same people same people same tribe same
lineage same Heritage they all Shamy all
shami yeah so you know I had a choice
hijab to leave that bit in or to edit it
out because I knew how that was going
going to be received but I purposely
left that segment in and I actually got
blasted for it by some quarters but did
you not push back a lot no no I I wanted
him to just carry on and and say what
he's saying so people understand that
our he didn't need to push back I didn't
need to because there you go he's going
to tell you exactly him rope and then
hang himself and I think that's a
strategy that a lot of people miss
people sometimes say to me of late
you've been doing very softball
interviews not necessarily sometimes if
you no it's good like that sometimes you
just let people it's a bit like Joe
Rogan Joe Rogan is had an evolution as
well in the way he's especially the
podcast say it's not especially if
you're doing it as a podcast it's not
it's not hard talk do you know what I
mean not always and just let people talk
and and and and naturally when you make
them feel comfortable um The Mask slips
if there's a mask to slip and in the
case of David Miller there was how could
you tell hundreds and thousands of
syrians who have lost Brothers Sons
daughters wives have had to leave and
cross the Mediterranean Sea in such
horrific conditions to get over it I had
a choice to either take that out or
leave it I left it uh and and and his
mask has slipped now he's having
unhinged meltdowns as is George Galloway
when he said I give up on the Arabs and
you know resorting to the same
dehumanize dehumanizing language to
basically criticize the other side Scott
r as well Scott R oh my God he he said
Islam is a disease on the propag yeah on
the propaganda Co podcast with that
brother from the US so why is he saying
that saying that obviously because Islam
itself or islamism well whatever he said
Islam or islamism okay it's a big
difference so just be okay but Islam or
Islam I'm I'm very sure that he said
Islam but correct me if I'm wrong and
Scott if I got it wrong I don't care so
um either way we know that when it comes
to not being aligned to your political
binaries you won't think twice to use
use these labels now if you were to
close your eyes and and just read some
of these tweets out from George Galloway
from David Miller from Craig Murray from
Scott Ritter from some of these guys who
have been notable contributors in the
last 14 months you'd have think that
this was a Neo on Zionist right-wing War
mongra you know de dehumanizing anyone
remotely Associated Affiliated or
supportive of the Syrian Revolution as
Isis head choppers takfiri wahhabis come
on this is the exactly same 9/11 war and
Terror uh Bush us against them and it
there's there's not even any kind of
like finesse there's not even an attempt
to present the arguments without
resorting to this dehumanizing language
because for our Anti-Imperialist friends
on the left there's a binary hijab it's
even you're on the side of the natol Le
imperialist and the Zionist agenda or
you're in the Anti-Imperialist Camp
which is basically Russia China and so
forth but their blind spot is the fact
that they're very convenient about
ignoring downplaying or defending the
said crimes of China the said crimes of
Russia who have equally amount of blood
on their hands uh of the Muslims so I
think it was necessary I know you you
have an approach whereby necessarily
don't shake the ball if You' done good
for Palestine KRA on I'm not going to
disrupt that but I think Syria was a
lius test and I from a self-reflective
point of view perhaps some of these guys
were a blind spot for some Muslim
organizations but I also believe that
non-muslims there is no permanent
alliances with
non-muslims there's strategic specific
goal-based uh campaign based agenda
based alliances Christians and Muslims
get together to clean up the streets of
of prostitutes and drugs I get that um
Muslims and non-muslims come together
vote left or right for the cause of
Palestine I get that but there's no
permanent alliances from my
understanding of of the de and our
scripture there is no permanent
alliances with non-muslims because the
nature of kufur is that is inconsistent
it's it's here and there they're with
you today they'll be gone tomorrow and
that applies to the left and the right
so I'm glad that Syria brought out um
the true colors of some of these
individuals who for 14 months have
enjoyed platform access proliferation uh
because of the Gaza caused and many of
us were hoping that seeing what they saw
in Gaza that it would humanize the
syrians more that you'd understand that
the syrians have been facing this for 13
years why do you differ between the
Palestinians and the syrians but but
they didn't even hang about I mean look
George Galloway on the day of the uh
German Christmas Market attack he
already jumped onto the Assumption and
the bandwagon that the perpetrator was a
Muslim extremist the Tye Tye of
extremism that the West supports abroad
indirectly referring to Syria we had
Craig Murray did he then retract that or
I think but I'm not sure if he retracted
or deleted but then he started
retweeting you and me and our and our
position that's a good thing isn't it
yeah but it's just like some credit for
that one yeah retreat but the thing is
you didn't hang about to jump on the
bandwagon we had Craig Murray right the
former British ambassador to is bistan
Right Pro St Pro Palestine activist
telling people that by the way if anyone
supports the Syrian Revolution
you can report them to the police
because syan Revolution is being led by
HTS which is a prescribed group so if
you find anyone supporting thean
Revolution you can report them to the
police look at this Behavior brother
overnight Mark Fel they switching up
Craig Murray who's that former
Ambassador former British ambassador to
usbekistan uh that's a very unusual
position isn't it for yeah but but but
now like he's he's a bit more Rogue
these days okay so he's a Twitter guy
Twitter guy he has some presence Beyond
I mean he does have a a long diplomatic
uh accolades but just on this issue it
seems like your traditional white
lefties always have their favorite Arab
dictator it's something about gal that
they like and Bash Assad that they like
and Sadam that they like andf that they
like and CeCe that they like there's
something about them if you love them so
much go live there in it go live there
see if they give you a job and see how
how see how no they might do it if they
if they they might give them a job these
guys will definitely yeah if they praise
them high highly enough
job but but but I just can't accept this
kind of like you know in the case of
David Miller you know telling Muslims
that if you really want an Islamic
Revival that you need to align yourself
with a type of Revolution theology like
the 1979 revolution in Iran but who the
hell are you to be telling Muslims where
they should be aligning their siasa from
who are you Whata for those of a
politics yeah your politics who the hell
are you to be telling Muslims by the way
your revivalist politics and method Oles
should be aligned toia 1979 shut your
mouth that's none of your business don't
concern yourself your area of expertise
is x y and Zed stick to those Lanes
what's your view on Iran and and their
their kind of interactions of Israel and
cuz some people say what's happened now
the access of resistance has been
weakened because severely yeah that goes
do I say but but let me posit this to
our viewers and listeners um Iran was
present in Syria for the last 15 20
years that didn't that didn't prevent a
genocide in didn't um Iran was very much
present in Syria Mas Assad didn't do
anything himself didn't do nothing
himself um in fact a lot of the guys s
to cut a lot of the guys they're like
you know what are these guys going to do
and it's been as you mentioned two weeks
but we know that's a hypothetical
question a futuristic question but we
already know the the the actual fact of
the matter which is that what did Bashar
alassad do nothing nothing and and let
me posit this as well if the Syrian
rebels were truly American Stooges and
were American agents and were basically
in the pockets of the US and Israel how
is it that for the last 20 30 years
Israel has not bombed those said stock
piles and chemical weapons and naval
fleet when during bashar's rule that's
cuz he never posed a
threat but some would say the the supply
lines for example from uh Iran all the
way through toah for example okay we try
we try telling syrians who do not see
the axes of resistance as the axes of
resistance they see them as the a of
Oppression ex try convincing 25 million
syrians do they do they make the
argument that somehow the Iranians are
arming Hamas as well I mean I'm yet to
see how would it Geographic
geographically no no I I I asked rushan
this because Russian presented this
argument he was like you know the land
roof by which Iran used to provide
weapons to his BL I'm about what weapons
received Hamas yeah how would they do it
through the Mediteranean how they do it
I I would have know they only had the
land route there were definitely Iranian
weapons reaching hisbah in Lebanon
there's no two ways about that but how
much of those weapons wereing the
resistant groups in in Gaza isly
question it has to go through isra I
mean let's make no mistake let's no's
how are they going to do it
Mediterranean or how let's no let's make
no mistake that one year where
Muhammed ruled for a year the Rafa gate
was just open and in that one year
whatever was transferred to Gaza in
preparation for whatever moves they
were're going to pull against Israel
happened during that one year and some
have said that that was his s to the
Palestinians to keep that rough gate
open for a year someone could argue that
he didn't engage in war with uh Israel
even despite the fact that Israel did
actually bombard Gaza in in in his
Premiership he play he played the key
role of bringing a ceas fight and
bringing an end to that um something
that CE has not been able to do in the
last 14 months and doesn't even show any
appetite to do that um but look um what
were we talking about we were talking
about the left and our allies yeah let
let's wrap up on this yeah what do you
think they're not permanent what's your
way of dealing with them they're not
permanent allies cuz I've seen you you
know got sees fire open fire yeah on one
of
them Ahmed I think yeah yeah yeah suan
Ahmed the ex Bas King in interesting
individual an obscure figure he's also
quite a active Pro Palestine individual
isn't he yeah yeah in the last two years
three years but I encourag people to uh
go onto his account and search how often
he spoke about these said subjects
before October 7th that's fine people
wake up and have different Awakenings at
different times uh but I just take um
these kind of new emerging uh
contributors and pundits uh with caution
especially if there's no uh background
checks on them you know at the end of
the day if we want to know who your
teachers are who your murab are who your
mentors are you can do that you can do
the same with me is he an academic I
think he's I looked at his profile I
think he did have few he's got lot of
but no one can really Vue him all we
know that he moved around with shukov
another controvers figure that he's like
I think he's ANC
Han but but quite a
modernist and and a fair amount of
people made on him and and and he kind
of had a legal dispute with him over
over a book that was written is he sh is
he who Mr Ahmed uh I don't care enough
to know to be honest okay so whatever he
is he was hanging on the Hy guy so I
don't know he must be I mean I don't
know just the very fact that he's got
this mention in your podcast it's h for
him big up to you maybe maybe we could
do a podcast with you and him I think
that would be good I'm not interested in
that yeah I'm not interested you get
some opposing views no no he he he needs
to issue apologies first for lying he
needs to issue apologies for making uh
outrageous lies against another Muslim
something you're a Zionist no he well
not just us he said all the da Bros yeah
yeah in which he encompasses many of the
brothers all Zionist dues are Zionist
agents are are being funed by salafist
grou all this Malak look these are lazy
arguments if you have if you have an
issue with the Syrian Revolution or
you're a skeptic of the Arab Spring
present your ideas based on reality and
based on evidences to say that someone
is an Isis alqaeda NATO head chopper
it's just a lazy argument to say that
you're being funded by Saudi and your
that's what the zist are saying about
like you Hamas and those who support the
Palestinian resistance or whatever it
may be and I posit one last thing to our
to our allies on the left right how is
it that absolutely cool with masked
islamists when it's the Gaza Palestinian
type but you have a problem when it's
the Syrian type where's the consistency
in this because would you say Hamas and
HTS have a very similar
ideology no because HTS is usle roots
not now usle Roots was alqa wasn't it Al
but they no longer speak they no longer
yeah yeah yeah they Comm the
transnational element of it even the
kind of theological approach to
excommunication these things that
they've moved away from that so as it
stands now is there a similarity like
are they are they closer to Muslim
Brotherhood yeah with the type of
pragmatism and diplomacy we're seeing
from Mr Shad he's definitely show more
indications of being anani than he is a
Sala to be honest um because that type
of uh engagement and articulation of
political positions is more associated
with thean than it is with salfi Jihadi
groups right and he's showing that now I
don't know theologically where he aligns
himself I still do believe that he's
he's he's a salafi a at heart in fact a
journalist from the Sunday Times asked
one of his right-hand men that question
that where does Mr Shar position himself
theologically and he said and his guy
said to him that's for him and him alone
and he won't look to implement this on
the rest of syrians but I think he leans
towards the kind of salafi a three
position um but everyone has to be a bit
of aani in politics right when it comes
to the world stage New World Order Now
isn't it so it's yeah it's it's been
there's a seismic shift the aces of
resistance have been you know delivered
a severe blow it'll be interesting to to
see how Iran emerges from this they've
got do you think Iran is the people see
it as the answer if there's going to be
any or anything is going to be uh any no
is going to come from Iran no it's
historically it's never come from the
Shia and I'm not even making this a
sectarian issue um you know looking at
14400 years of Islamic history all the
famous battles and Liberation movements
um that liberate alaka uh that fought
the Mongols in jalot that conquered
Constantinople whever it may be for
whatever reason it was determined that
it was never at the hands of Shia
polities and leaders um so I I am not
the position that Iran would
be that these are the people that give
Victory and be Maring no it's just a
feeling I don't you think they're more
rhetorical or than they are we can
definitely learn I mean people are
calling them Paper Tigers now well we
could do with some paper Tigers okay
tell me bro in in a situation where
there's no Tigers Paper Tigers is better
than nothing
I I wish more governments you know aded
theh yeah because I mean erdogan does it
a little bit here and there he does it
here and there but then his policies
completely contradict what he does and
says his m in massive protest but I wish
that more Sunni Arab Muslim governments
took a more of a rhetorical stance
because that lays the foundations for
future Generations right hijab like your
objective could just be I'm going to
give a fiery speech and not actually
deliver anything as a head of state you
don't know who in that a know that the
you know the most of those Arab states
are not going to do anything like that
I'm saying that even if they did there
could be someone in that audience
attentively listening that you could
Inspire that could be the Salah of
tomorrow that could be the N Zink of
tomorrow that could be the BS of
tomorrow or of Tomorrow there absolutely
can be so I don't I don't think there's
there's no value in rhetoric yeah
rhetoric it creates public opinion it
creates a a certain sentiment around the
cuse and I think it's important and Iran
is the best at doing that in fact it can
be argued that they duped many sunnis um
as a result of this whole Pro Palestine
talk um obviously it's debatable to how
committed they were or not but the point
is as a result of their stance on
Palestine many gave them that H to the
extent that they were willing to even
forget Syria for it um so obviously Iran
has got lws of introspection to do how
they're going to emerge from this don't
write them off as a regional power but
they need to understand that they backed
the wrong man in Syria moving on to
something a little bit more let's say a
bit more fun a bit more interesting I
mean not more interesting what you've
said is very very interesting more
light-hearted maybe go on you've been
having a lot of um podcasts with like
American dat people different kinds of
individuals did anything stand out from
your conversations you had one with Nal
Khan recently or anybody else that you
thought was this is an interesting thing
or analysis that you thought was
interesting so the last American di that
I had on the podcast was n Manali khanan
yeah and it was ini interesting one
because he's obviously been somewhat off
the radar of course he's been carrying
on with Bay and and his projects there
and he's doing a phenomenal job with
that stuff there's no denying that
obviously there was that controversy in
2018 that Fallout with him and omaran
and there was all of that happening and
in that podcast with him I generally
find him to be you know a wealth of
knowledge he's definitely someone who
you know his accolades speak for itself
but there was an interesting that he
said and again I let it slide because I
knew people he was going to get checked
in the comment section and people going
to check him for it but sometimes it's
good to just let people talk you know
when you when you again as I mentioned
earlier in this conversation that if you
start countering people's backs go up
okay and you won't get the truth out of
them right or or the full position and
the thing that he said was that he
believes that the US is 30 years ahead
of the UK what as a country or Muslims
the Muslim communities right now if
you'd have said to me from the
perspective of socioeconomic progression
literacy acade Academia they be a case
presented for that but if you're saying
that from the position from the
perspective of Islamic activism dawa the
preservation of the community its values
um being more uncompromising as a
community that's at rageous Britain
alhamdulillah stands out amongst all
countries in the west and everyone talks
about the Muslim Community of the West
it's da it's du it's activist it's
groups it's movements it's jamat that on
the one hand we can get together for
prevent LGBT palestin on the same on the
on the same day we'll have a debate with
AIS and AIS you know we're that active
and alhamdulillah if you go to certain
communities in the UK you will see how
engrossed and well established the
Muslim communities are in terms of our
institutions so did he not set the
parameters in no he didn't he I I think
he kind of genuinely said it and and
even when he said that I found it a bit
strange he give any reasoning I think he
was talking more about um how people
identifi themselves cuz now he's coming
back to me he said that American Muslims
don't have a conflict between being
American and Muslim but for but for me
that is the problem the problem you know
what he's saying is is a mark of
progress is what I felt is a problem
it's actually also a difference in uh
British culture and American culture cuz
I I feel like in America what it is is
like they've got an assimilationist
culture very so you so if you go ask an
African-American where you from in
Africa he'll say I'm not any from
anywhere I'm African-American that's
what I am he proudly say American if you
go here to Nigerian he'll tell you what
EO Euro how is and even the subribe and
I do think there's a strength in in in a
you know in a person being able to do
that knowing exactly where the lineage
is I think actually if if anything a of
in a way because what the knowing
exactly where you're from and stuff like
that is a good thing um but I don't see
how that would be I agree with you a
marker of progress I mean if if you're
saying that for example so I found that
Tad concerning because I thought if
you're saying that one of the markers of
progress is that American Muslims aren't
conflicted over their country of birth
or patriotism and their Muslim identity
that is a problem because if you see if
you don't see no issue there then how do
you grapple with foreign policy issues
or America's involvement in the death
and destruction of the Muslim world or
how it treats minorities domestically
under C cve laws so it was interesting
that he mentioned that he didn't mention
overtly that he's talking about
socioeconomic progress yeah but even
then like I mean people forget how big
America is States massive and you know
one state is comparatively different
from another like if you go to the
Muslim Community in Philadelphia or the
Muslim Community in New York or versus
the Muslim Community in um Texas in
Texas or or California when I went to
California I found that as you mentioned
like socioeconomically they were so much
better off uh than the Muslim Community
which a lot in the UK for example in
London a lot of them were working class
in Birmingham as well and and these kind
of big cities but then if you go to
Philadelphia actually they working-class
people or Detroit or Michigan yeah
exactly yeah you know what I mean so
it's a lot of a lot of the things don't
apply in the same way even racial
demographics you got African-American
Muslims and for example Phil
Philadelphia in Detroit as you mentioned
and New York as well but then you've got
like you know uh subcontinental Muslims
in uh in California Etc and I feel like
the the ones in in the blue states are
more likely to be liberal yes um and the
ones in the red states are more likely
to be a bit more shadid is it yeah yeah
but the thing is what what I have a
problem with is this right there's this
kind of stereotyping and caricaturing
that we do to our cousins from across
the pond and they do it to us so so The
Stereotype of the of the British Muslim
is that he or she is
sectarian um they generally quite work
they come from workingclass background
they'll probably come from a gz
Community which is that's
true home truth but I don't see that but
I don't see that as a bad thing I don't
see Muslims living amongst Muslims
theism thing is has caused issues like
in the vision and stuff like but but I
would say that that keeps our our fire
alive it keeps it keeps the fire in the
belly alive so long as we can unify on
key
causes Now The Stereotype of the
American Muslim is that he or she is
liberal he or she's American first
before they are Muslim um he or she is
very open to diluting and compromising
on qut Islamic values and principles do
you think there's truth in
that not in the African Comm afan
they're a bit more shadid for sure but
they're the oldest they are the oldest
of the communities so yeah there's this
kind of caricaturing that we do to each
other I just don't see that the markers
of progress as mentioned by uh Brother
nman Ali Khan was actually a sign of
progress it's actually a sign of concern
if anything if if you're marking
progress that Muslims in America are not
conflicted about their identity and
their belonging and that's a that's a
that's a good thing I don't think
Muslims in the UK or in Europe have that
issue where to be honest the the point
you initially made about like if
religiosity there are some studies and I
looked at some surveys like British
attitude surveys for example and also um
even ugar and Pew and other
organizations have asked questions to
Muslims in the UK about Sharia law for
example and I think that's probably one
of the best ways to see gaau someone's
religiosity because if someone is more
likely to reject very aspects of the
religion yeah they are less likely to be
religious so you'll find quite a big a
Chasm of difference actually between the
two now there are methodological issues
at hand when about sociology and stuff
in terms of how this um for example data
has been collected Etc but NE
nevertheless you know as you mentioned
with
religiosity I think there is a concern
across the pond because the concern is
that the Americans in particular not so
much the Canadians as much but the
Americans have a very strong culture
more so than in terms of the patriotism
I think it's much stronger definely
you're more likely especially in the red
States but not throughout the country
you're more likely to find it okay to
wave an American flag you know and you
know this kind of thing and desecrating
the flag has more of a implication there
whereas in the UK that's not as um it's
not like that in fact many people in
London in the big cities and stuff if
you if you see someone unless it's the
World Cup or one of these kind of events
with the flag you'd think that this
person is for example a nationalist or
something rightwing do you know what I
mean so it almost carries in some areas
For Better or For Worse I'm not making a
judgment but also you know carries some
kind of a negative uh connotation and so
the question is when you have a strong
culture like in America a strong
American you know dominant culture how
do you respond to that as an American
day do you assimilate do you assimilate
because then when you do that then your
the identity becomes kind of infused and
then there's more likelihood one could
argue that somebody a woman could just
say well actually if I'm American Muslim
you know or a man could say you know
then liberalism then feminism then all
these kind of things we've already seen
the rotten fruits of that among some
institutions without necessarily
mentioning their names in terms of their
output and their positions and stuff
like lgbtq alliances same sex marriages
abortion the legalization of cannabis
we've seen certain organizations and do
take certain positions to be honest and
now a lot of them have clarified yes you
know like y recently have made some
major clar but the very fact the look
I'm I'm not singing out Y at all I'm
just saying that those who adopted those
positions obviously it was adopted in to
begin with because there was some laxity
in the first place right and you just
simply won't see back foot approach
isn't it yeah you just want see here's
one thing I would say is that have you
ever seen any from you know uh that side
of the pond maybe with the exception of
Daniel on that level of like it was
reaching everyone where there
reputational feminism not really no do
you see what I mean I feel like there is
a real one thing that me and Ali noticed
when we went especially to California
other places in America as well is that
feminism still has a lot more currency I
think and feminism liberalism has a lot
more currency and the thing the problem
I see with it is that it actually
disturbs someone's religiousity because
when you have a woman now who's who's
really reading the Quran and she's
reading all
these these verses that verse and the
other verse um you know if you have a
presupposition of or a feministic
presupposition you're going to approach
these verses in a certain way where
you're going to have severe doubts
because what what is shaping your
morality is it Quran and Sunnah or is it
going to be you know feministic writings
and positions and whatever it may be so
when feminism actually
causes funny enough conveyor belt for
sure yeah there's no question about like
for example themselves they did one of
the only studies I've come across about
doubts we did our own things where we're
asking people where you get your doubts
from and stuff like that using the tools
that we have and it seems to me like a
lot of the where people get Muslims get
their doubts is from the moral questions
of Islam and let's be honest the major
moral questions in Islam a lot of them
to do to gender issues and so if someone
starts off with a presupposition of
feminism which a lot of them do marriage
inheritance women's rights then they're
less likely to be convinced with the
religion of Islam yeah do you know what
I mean so that is the head of this
feminism liberalism and all these things
they're the head of the snake and I
don't feel like there is a
confrontational I feel with a lot of the
American du in general they will make um
they will they will make criticisms
about some of the approaches they'll say
you're you know very angry approach very
confrontational approach whatever and
some of those criticism are valid
sometimes we can be overly
confrontational but on the other on the
flip side of things we need to see more
of a courageous approach from their side
less of an acquiescence approach less of
an appeasing approach to the feminist
side to be honest because to be I would
rather be accused of arrogance than be
accused of cowardice absolutely and what
makes and both are bad yeah of course
and what's also quite surprising is that
they have far more leniency in terms of
their free speech laws than the Brits
have like you can be far more
unequivocal and scathing in your
criticism of said ideologies than we can
in the UK where you can literally you
know get arrested or get a gagging order
as hate speech um so it does come as a
surprise that the constit the American
Constitution allows people to be very
open uh in criticizing other ideologies
and religions it's a shame that we don't
see them take up uh that uh access
whereas we out here in the UK we've got
far more stringent Free Speech laws hate
speech laws especially in the wake of
the race riots that we saw recently now
the fishing net of curtailing speech and
critical speech is so far and wide now
but yet you find Muslims in the UK
activist M far more scathing and
unequivocal in in our position against
feminism
I think a lot of it is to do with the
fact that as well like you mentioned it
we we we grow up in a kind of more rough
environment let's be honest like I don't
know you grew up in a rough man and the
issue is like when when you go to
Secondary School my experience in
secondary school um we saw it in the
film didn't we yeah yeah yeah I mean oh
yeah that's right but it what that was a
little I mean very much dramatized
actually but um but no but the
experience of the average person in the
secondary school is that you're you're
going to be harmed you're going to be
bullied you're going to it's going to
happen so you might as well get ready
for that kind of thing but if you don't
have that prior training we had the
training um in the secondary schools in
in the playgrounds as you know the older
kids would come to us and try and do
whatever they try to do with us and on
the roadsides and all those kind of
things and especially in the UK then
it's goodia yeah it's good T it's good T
it just gets you ready for the real
world and the kind of confrontations and
the obstacles that you may face in in in
your da and your activism and maybe look
I always maintain that many of our
brothers across the pond they live in a
bit of a
but at the same time the can be applied
to them that they are living under the
belly of the Beast and therefore there's
a far level far higher level of
sensitivity that they have to apply when
dealing with their communities I get
that but there has to be a fine line
where you're treading between being
sensitive and compassionate and merciful
to your congregation and basically
taking a biscuit where you're basically
you're going to open The Floodgate to
apostasy and doubts yourself so that's a
balancing act that they have to deal
with and our harsh we have to doal with
in our own way and we have to deal with
our harshness and and and and whatever
issues we have yeah but yeah I think I
think the Americans are cool man I think
there's a lot they good people and
especially on the politics they've been
quite good with this and marketing you
the way they Market their da in terms of
you know online activ and the quality of
it fantastic hon and they're far more
generous they have deeper pockets they
fund the da projects way more than than
the Brits do the Europeans do it's good
absolutely that we can take from them
and I'm sure there's lots of good that
they can take from us a Shad of a doubt
they need to actually uhhuh
all right so you got fat yeah uh what f
for you know what
F you been sharing it around him oh yeah
okay like a kid
with very happy no I had I had some FS
before but not from the like a and
obviously for those who don't know what
Dil is talking about it's about recent
MMA fight which obviously I won by TKO
in the third round you know hamah tried
to finish the job but not leave it to
the
referee leave it to the
it was a great it was a great experience
I'll be honest with it was a tumultuous
and very tempestuous like in terms of
emotions experience roller coaster but
in terms of in terms of the ruling a lot
of people are going to say well and this
is probably the number one question I
have been asked about is it Hal or Haram
right and um look I mean here's here's
the thing there is a Hadith and I'm very
aware of that Hadith and I spoken about
Hadith at length uh which is a sound and
authentic Hadith which and it comes in
slightly different variations which
goes that if any of you strikes the if
any of you fights your brother then let
him abstain from hitting the face
because Allah created Adam on his image
um now before I continue I did get a f
from shank based on the context that
you're talking about we were just
talking about a second ago which is that
things are very rough at the moment
they're very difficult in the in in the
west look we've got the far right
movement we've got people all over the
place that want to really end us
eliminate us yeah and we have a
protective um you know role as men
especially over ourselves and over our
children Etc and if you ask a fight
expert as I have I asked F zabi which as
you know is you had interview with him
as well considered to be really the best
you know in one of the best experts in
fighting in the world in fact I was just
reading a book of um George St Pierre
who's considered as you know as one of
the best fighters of all time if not the
best and he's um it's called the will to
fight or something like that the book
and he has a whole chapter dedicated to
actually and of course he would yeah so
it's it shows you the level that I'm
talking about and the reason why this is
important is
because he that there's a principle in
which says that ruling um making a
ruling on something is a subsidiary
branch of knowing what that thing is
anyway so I
told um I communicated to him through um
I sent many things through WhatsApp and
stuff like that um that this is the
context and actually a full fight you
know we talking about you know combat
hand-to hand
combat according to farabi you really
need to know how to get punched in the
face how to deal with that to calibrate
the sympathetic nervous system the
autonomic nervous system you're not
going to know how to fight fully just
doing for example the grappling Sports
yes it's a part of fighting and maybe
even about sparring yeah so that's the
point I asked him about sparring hard
sparring hard sparring everything he
said it's okay and even the competition
aspect of it he accepted is okay as well
did he yes he did he said it's
permissible he said permissible both
things he said permissible because what
I explained was that you got training
camp before it puts you at a different
level and the question is about
advantage in the Muslim World obviously
this is not him this is me elaborating
I'm saying he he allowed both he allowed
the sparring and he allowed the um compe
and the competing as well so long as
there is no like uh for example alcohol
and gambling and all these other things
that you know his alcohol gambling
ringles yeah all the stuff that you know
the Shar is very clear about if you
avoid those things and has to be covered
if you avoid those things he allowed it
okay you know um but the point I'm
making so this is one of the greatest
Scholars living today he's got is
considered to be one of the biggest
centers of Islamic learning in the world
in order to join the Marcas you have to
have uh memorized the Quran in two Ras
not just in one Rea and guess how many
years it takes to graduate from this
Marcas on 17 years wow so you can
imagine the levels we're talking about
like for example he's the teacher of s k
who is considered one of the biggest
scholars in the Arab world at the moment
so he is the scholar of one of the
biggest Scholars of the Arab world today
and for him to bring a fat like this I
think is is very very very significant
now so this is the first thing the
second thing is in terms of pre-existing
fatwas because there are pre-existing FS
I can read out I mean if if you want but
I'll just tell you them anyway of
Scholars of the hanfi maab it is a
minority view who say things like
um for example this is what
mentions Hussein Muhammad who's a who is
a 13th century 1263 Century uh he died
1263 a contemporary with scholar and
someone could argue well in the Hani
maab you have you know you have a
different you have what you
call but then if you look at the works
of and
others so they're saying it's that you
follow the ruling of don't hit the face
so if you combine everything it's very
clear that there is a minority opinion
among the big Scholars like Alani like
mu Al
like as I
mentioned who do indicate okay that
we're talking about or we talking about
in terms of Sunnah it's Sunnah not to
hit the face that's a minority opinion
so already we have an opinion in Islam
and then you have the question of
because you know there's a in Islam
says whatever the W is not completed
with it is W itself absolutely so for
example if you if you need to do Hajj if
you need to do Hajj then you need to
take a plane taking a plane is as W as
doing the abolutely because everything
to fulfill that W of becomes becomes as
well so then if it's we agree it's wag
for the for the Muslim man to protect
himself and protect his family and we
also know from the context that we're
living in and that you know non-muslims
have an advantage if you're telling them
if you're telling us that they can hard
Spa they can do the whole thing and we
can only do for example Jiu-Jitsu in
certain context or wrestling in certain
context where you're not wearing certain
because you can't compete because is
going to be definitely compromised so
you're putting so many restrictions okay
someone will say well you know how can
you do this when it's not because the
the the principle
is which is
that let's assume this Hadith is talking
about is Haram let's assume the minority
opinion is not correct it's Haram
therefore to hit the face how can you
make something and it's not a in the
sense that if you don't do it then you
won't die yeah you won't die so the
answer I would give to that is the
following Scholars from almost all
schools of thought the hanafis the
dandis the salafis everybody AG accepts
that um car insurance is
allowed now car
insurance the majority opinion is that
it's Haram is Haram but you can't claim
off it that's when it becomes Haram yeah
no problem some different Scholars will
say different things but they they allow
it want to get one car two car three car
The Scholar will allow it so here's the
thing now let's say car insurance is
Haram but everyone's allowed it but if I
don't if in London especially in London
okay if I don't have a car can I not get
from place a to place B I can I can take
the Uber I can take the underground one
of the best underground systems in the
entire world I can take the bus I can
take the night bus I can take the line
bike I can there's so many options that
you're spoiled actually for choice
there's no classification where in which
you could argue that if I don't go into
my car and drive it that I'm going to
die in the classical sense of so then
you have to ask yourself why did the
scholars of Islam and the mutis allow
yeah why did they allow driving a car
because of the advantage of the Muslim
Muslim made it easier for the Muslims
giving advantage to the Muslims so my
question then would be well if driving a
car who you asking you're asking
yourself this no to them to those who of
you the critics my question would be if
driving you drive a car Haram to drive a
car with the insurance that you have it
according to majority of Scholars if
driving a car is allowable because of
the convenience factor because of the
factor and because of factor and the
ease Factor etc etc etc then what is
more of a wedge of for you to fulfill
for you to get from place A to point B
or for you to protect your wife and kids
would you imagine this I let's be real
about this for a second and you know
this someone who's never fought before
not no fighting not in the streets not
in the playgrounds not in in anything
done no fighting and that's why with all
due respect I would not I don't respect
this position for a man to be I would
never get my my daughter would never be
married to a man who has no prior
experience zero prior experience
fighting because his role is to protect
my my daughter so how is he going to
protect when there's no proof of concept
that can protect himself if you've not
been in a situation where you've had to
defend yourself or even the mere threat
that you're going to be attacked you may
have to defend yourself is very
different to someone who's never had
that experience it's like it's like
water and oil actually yeah so imagine
now so if imagine you've got a person
because we've gone through this
experience when we were in year seven or
year six or something where we had to
have a fight in the playground or
something and we had to overcome the
nerves and we had to kind of calibrate
our sympathetic nervous system and the
fight of flight response and whatever
not everyone has had that experience
especially not yeah archetype who's he's
all he's doing is Reading in a in a
mosque somewhere okay and he's never
been in a physical altercation in his
life this man is is's irresponsible in
my opinion the reason why he's
irresponsible is because if the first
time you are going to get into a
physical altercation it's going to be
when you're walking with your wife and
your kids in the street which is a
possibility 20 30 40% possibility
especially depending on where you live
in the west and how you dress outside
and stuff and how you dress exactly how
you exactly you're attire and stuff if
that's the first time you're doing your
wife in
Injustice look I'll posit the following
to you the first thing I'll posit to you
is let's concede to the point that men
especially Muslim men and even sisters
there is actually a need for them to
learn martial arts and Combat Sports uh
as a mechanism of self-defense in light
of the heightened islamophobia the race
riots were is is a testimony to that
what the critics would say to you hijab
is that we've accepted that the hard
sparring is fine the the strike in the
face is fine perfect yeah why the
pay-per-view theatrics and you know I
had to return all the pay-per-views I
know you didn't made a loss but you know
like you know the walking in the build
up the show so so so so I I don't see
many people disputing the ruling from
the point of view that there is a need
to defend about competition and stuff
okay what about competition that the
everything that builds up to it what's a
part of that I think that's where many
would have competition gets someone more
competent in anything they do the
competition is what makes someone more
efficient and everyone knows that in any
field of of human endeavor whether it's
testing and exam examinations or
especially in Combat Sports does have to
be filmed but let me come to a second a
point here which is the following Islam
you've got two kinds of rulings okay
you've got rulings and you have rulings
yeah we can call it the ones not it's
not clear cut is is ones which so for
example why do we pray four in we pay
because Allah said so we don't actually
have there's no reason yes so so so the
ruling but there's no reason you just
listen and obey yeah so it's there's
actually no reason for it but then you
have a different kind of ruling here
which is
the so for example easy simple the
easiest example all the is using in the
book which is the following
linguistically really we're talking
about wine yeah with grape grapes the
here
is is basically intoxication so what
makes the is the intox intoxication so
wherever you find this intoxication this
in other places for example if you find
it's Haram so if weed and whatever that
that's how they make the ruling okay how
do you define intoxication that's a
discussion we can have for another day
but nevertheless that's how they do yeah
you have the and you have something
called the the is where you get you're
taking you're extracting the from we put
on the okay no problem the issue now is
this let's assume that you are in a
sparring club and five people are
watching you as your hard
Spar okay 10 15 20 at what what point
does become Haram and what's the for
that because my point is is that whether
a million people watch or whether one
person watches there is nothing in Islam
that indicates that the of such a thing
or the causative reasoning of is them
people that watch so in this case if
they say well the theatrics and this and
going out and all that thing I say which
part of that is Haram so I can adjust it
but you have to bring some evidence from
the Quran Haram aside I think what it is
it's more to do with the appropriateness
of it the ethical appropriateness of Dua
then it becomes a subsidiary issue I
mean everyone has look I mean since
since you've been doing the preparation
for the fight recently and even Hamza
for his uh boxing B that he had right
obviously your one was more documented
there was a whole build up to it yeah
whereas Hamza wasn't but he released his
video and both face
criticisms from my observation you have
those that you're not going to convince
that striking the face is permissible
then go do wrestling fre wrestling so so
so let's put them aside because you're
not convincing these brothers and
sisters any striking of the face is
Haram and bom we're now dealing with the
next group and the next group is fine
for said
reasons of the necessity the need for it
given our climate the environment we
understand that you have to strike the
face training the appropr absolutely to
defend the face and all sorts we get
that and the psychological element as
well is a huge part I think it's in many
way the biggest part of it I think yeah
the issue isue that some have or many we
don't know what the numbers are um
because I had the same from a brother
called a friend of mine called to to
Sharif in Syria who critical he's a good
man to see he does beautiful work in
beautiful work you know you know and
he's been really oppressed this man
hasn't he been made stateless committed
12 years to Syria uh was was was revoked
of his citizenship in absentia has
raised millions of pounds for for the
syrians alhamd he's a real he's a real
hero this really yeah definitely there's
no doubt and and he's been in the field
and he's made sacrifices some that he's
spoken about and a lot of which he can
never speak about on camera unbelievable
I asked him on camera and off camera
what's the issue here oh does he have an
issue as well yeah yeah what's the issue
you know he had an
issue the appropriateness of it should a
should a a an Islamic activist it should
someone who is seen as a symbol of the
faith of the religion as someone who
propagates the de is it appropriate for
them to Embark in such uh what he
described and others have described as
theatrics train fight do what you need
to do does it need to be filmed does it
need to be hyped does it need to be ppv
it's not it's not a um Islamic argument
more now it's like an aesthetic argument
right yeah I I believe so I believe that
because you're not going to convince
those who believe that striking the face
is Haram otherwise they're done and
really we're dealing with the camp here
that are basically saying fine we've
accepted your arguments and we may even
adopt that position ourselves but it's
all the other masalah that comes with it
that you guys are doing that's kind of
making it a light matter so so I don't
see it as an issue of Halal or Haram
because you live adapt that position or
that position is more to do with the
appropr here's the thing I mean do you
remember the time when that guy the
Israeli I was going to fight the Israeli
yes and we were lazing with the other
side yes you were the manager right we
were going through back and forth and
all that kind of thing imagine how much
would have been at stake if I if I
fought that guy and you smashed him in
yeah if I if I smashed him that's one
thing but if I got smashed by him here's
the thing imagine how much we've got to
lose of prestige in terms of reputation
yeah like I had already in my mind I
knew what he was going to do yeah he was
going to go for like heel Hooks and
stuff like that and I had in my mind
that if he grabbed the heel and he broke
it I would allow him to break it if he
actually got it and I can't get out of
it I'd allow him to do it so I was
willing to go every everywhere if he's
going to get me in any submission I I'll
go to sleep if he was going to if he was
going to get my arm I would let my arm
get broken I had that in my mind this
mindset it's not like any other fight I
would do because if if any other fight
maybe no actually I would tap if
somebody put me in a certain position
you know what I me cuz it's just a
normal bout but with him I had in my
mind that's is going to be life or death
to be honest because I can't I wouldn't
have been able to live with the
repercussions of facing defeat to a man
like that who put you know who's
actually openly IDF so the stakes I mean
this guy called me out you know he he
told me to fight him but was all about
money with these guys he want he he want
money he want money so because of the
money we couldn't we didn't give him
money he he pulled out and all that kind
of thing but let's assume that went
ahead because that thing can still
happen not with him necessarily because
we're not going to give him his terms
but let's say any other person M let's
say in speaker corner someone comes just
as they have in the past anywhere I go
with me there's a physical threat there
is a legitimate physical threat likewise
and with you as well so I'm saying that
if anything there should be more
encouragement for me to have the the the
training to go through the process so
that if there is a high stakes fight I
mean this was a big fight you know
almost half a million people have seen
it uh whatever but if it was something
with the IDF guy it would have been on a
different kind of level and if if he's
got like 10 fights 15 20 fights in
Bellator which is like the number two or
three promotion into the UFC in terms of
and he has all this training so why am I
putting myself in a disadvantageous
position so that if I do have to fight a
guy like that he's got so much more
psychological preparedness than I do do
let me let me ask you something I asked
I asked myself this question um you know
when you post a video of yourself
training right whether it's weights or
some grappling or sparring that you're
doing whatever it may be and you kind of
do it like a diary Vlog or you do it
consistently I've questioned myself I
don't do it as much as I used to uh I
obviously I kept you up to date with the
whole good fight documentary that I made
um giving up smoking and then getting
into Jiu-Jitsu I mean you inspired me to
get into jiujitsu alhamdulillah a blue
belt right now oh my Lord alhamdulillah
so so what I'm saying is that we all
have kind of been on a this journey of
combat training every all of us like to
do it like we our group loves to do that
yes yes absolutely I'm going to ask you
two questions and I'm going to wrap up
from my part question number one is when
I pulse training videos I've always T
I've always questioned for what reason
and purpose am I doing it I tell myself
that I'm doing it to encourage other
young Brothers to get on it train be
healthy and fit and strong capable and
competent in any given situation that's
what I tell
myself but then when I'm at sleep at
night I do ask myself is there something
more is there another void I'm trying to
fill is there something that I'm seeking
which is not that I ask myself that I I
merely POS it to you M uh if you haven't
done that to ask yourself are we are we
are we truly doing it to encourage and
Empower and get Brothers on it or is
there something more deeper regarding
ourselves number one number two what
would you say I think there is something
more deeper regarding so alhamdulillah
for me anyway for me there is yeah for
me definitely there is and there's no
shame of me saying that because for me
it's me proving to myself that I can go
through these pain
barriers I mean you know and I know
right I've been doing this behind the
scenes last 10 years 12 15 years you
grapping you've been in for years years
years years so I mean this is I've just
not documented this stuff I've not
brought out because it's it's kind of
like for me I was all this time it was
like I'm doing this for me like do you
know what I mean because I want to be
able to protect myself I want to be able
to have the confidence a lot of the
confidence I have on the podiums and the
stage and whatever actually a large
portion of that is because I know that
if the logical end point comes to be and
this becomes a physical situation I'll
know how to protect myself so I I've
always kept this to myself but then I
said to myself Subhan Allah if this is a
good thing and you know it's a good
thing that you don't truly believe until
you love for your brother what you love
for yourself and if you really feel that
this is having a transformative
psychological impact which I do believe
combat sport will give you something
nothing else will agreed there's no two
ways about it's even hormonally like in
a fight I'm not going to lie you the
adrenaline level goes so high you know
it's you literally if someone hits you
you can't feel a lot of it um Euphoria
the endorphins it's it's shocking and
then you got the anxiety and the uh of
coming out and and fighting in front of
people you can get knocked out all this
kind of stuff you're dealing with all of
that and I think going through a process
like that it you cannot get it from
anything else do you know what I mean so
I've always wanted to put myself through
that process so that I can prove to
myself that actually you're resilient of
the mind you have mind resilience you
can go through a process like this I I
done a marathon some time ago you'd be
surprised to know I cuz I'm very heavy
and I didn't do a great time how long is
the distance no it was it was a half
marathon 3 13.3 miles yeah it was in
Norway this was like 2016 I've got the
meddle for it and everything um in
Bergen a place called Bergen right but
it's it's it's the same it's the same
concept I've been doing this
competitions in terms of uh jiit
competitions I maybe like 15 of them do
you think in another situation in
another era yeah whereby in we lived in
a civilization where there was mandatory
conscription or having to spend x amount
of time inct or something like because
we don't have that exactly that there is
also this void that we're trying to fill
100% I think it's a part of masculinity
I think you're a deficient man if you
don't know how to protect yourself of
your family no but do you accept that in
the absence of those things which were
normal for over a thousand years because
we don't have that there is something
else that
we the famous saying which is an Arabic
saying and also English saying which is
that invention so um necessity is the
mother of all invention right so if in
the back in the days when it's not Pax
Americana Way you're not sitting in a
sedentary lifestyle watching Tik Tok
videos all day and just going to work
and coming back and this and that and
you're hch back and you're watching this
and you're eating drunk and you get Del
and that's your life when it wasn't a
necessity you had to learn how to fight
as a matter of Honor because if you
don't you're going to get ravaged and
your wife's going to taken as a slave
okay but we're not under the medieval
condition so we've become really a
different kind of man I'm sorry to say I
would
never uh respect a man who can't defend
himself I'm not saying that he has to
win there's no honor just the ability
and
the I can't lie I don't care how big a
you are how big you are how think you if
you've memorized all six books of Hadith
if you're walking in the street and
somebody and you're with your wife and
your kids and somebody comes and swears
at your wife swears at your kids tries
to humiliate and you can't respond to
that because of the fight or flight
response you have not calibrated it and
you have not worked on it and you have
not trained it because it's a
psychological thing and you don't even
realize you don't even know what you
would do in that situation and setus
parabus if someone who's doing the the
sparring and all that stuff and someone
who's not the one who's doing it will
have a better response because they've
trained it absolutely if you put
yourself in that situation and then you
flee or you or you don't act or you
freeze W you're not a man you're not
even a man islamically look because the
prophet
said what do you call it
um
and which is like cowardice
and um
uh and and being very stingy these two
characteristics
of yeah these things Prophet
consistently mentioned in and that's why
when when when Brothers if you're a
brother like if I'm not going to lie if
if you somebody has says it's Haram to
me and you I believe it's Haram blah
blah blah whatever and you know don't do
this and telling you what to do it and
you can do this instead and just you
don't need this and they're telling me
what what the what you need and what you
don't need not about necessarily the H
but you're telling you what you need and
you don't need but you've never done any
of this stuff before in your life you've
never engaged in a proper physical
altercation Don't Tell Me Oh but you
don't actually need this and you're
going to become a fight expert all of a
sudden yes or you don't need this and
you don't need that and in order to
confront this guy you can just do this
these moves here and you can go on a
YouTube video no you don't you have to
go through a practical process look just
look just to close with the final
question I wanted to ask you how would
you respond to those who who basically
say that in light of the ruling that you
got from that look it appears that not
just you that all of the brothers who
are involved in Combat Sports which
involve striking of the face ultimately
you guys are seeking rulings which align
with what you actually want to do what
would you say that because I've had that
question asked to me I'll say look it's
more to do with the mus of the Muslims
yeah and the the mus of the Muslim
approach is like for example
when someone could argue first of first
of
all the five or six some schol say
Necessities that Islam came to protect
yeah got that property
lineage uh property lineage wealth
wealth uh um what do you call it life
and life and Dean yeah as well actually
six one people put so these are the ones
that Dean is like for example that's why
they got laws etc etc but these are the
six main five or six main Necessities
but there are of sh as well and one of
the You could argue and many people have
argued in the books of and stuff one of
the
ofl which is to establish the Muslims to
give them
strength so my thing you'll find the
trend it's not necessarily the trend
of people will know that for example
when it comes to the Five Pillars when
it comes to R when it comes to things
where there's where there is uh people
consider it to be major sins for example
where there's a punishment where
someone's saying um with there land with
something like that you know I I do have
a strict approach usually with those
things because you know what those
things are significant things in the
religion of Islam you have to have you
know some you have to have the grounding
grounding but with the subsidiary
matters and we look at here versus a
subsidiary matter even if you and
there's a as well then you got to look
at you know what is in the best interest
of the Muslim Community in the next 20
years is it better when the far right is
on the up here in all of Europe and in
America is it better for you to have a
generation of men who can defend
themselves in their families or not the
cowards would you rather have a
generation of men that would run away
and they would freeze and they would not
know how to protect themselves and they
would soil themselves in in a
conversation of some of them would soil
themselves some of w you look at you and
I both know this if if you look at a man
sometimes you can tell just from this
demeanor that he's not on it yeah you
can work it out straight away a bully
all he has to do is look at look at how
he's looking at you look at how he's how
he's sitting the demeanor disposition
their temperament you can say I can rob
him decorum body language when you I'm
telling you my kid for example I've got
four kids aldah and two of them um they
compete they compete in Jiu-Jitsu not in
MMA to be fair I I do avoid the face
here but they need to know how to punch
in the boxing classes and stuff yeah I
wouldn't subject my kids I don't like
subjecting he very young CU he's eight
and the other one now is 11 but they
don't J to competitions and stuff they
do very well alhamdulillah uh and
everything else however here's the thing
I've I've seen the difference bro
between my child before the compettition
itions and all of that stuff versus
after same with my nephew USA my nephew
yeah my nephew USA when we got him into
boxing and he had a couple of bouts and
he was sping with guys bigger and
heavier complete different man complete
different different he became a man yeah
different after his few competition few
amate bouts sparing with big guys
heavier guys getting punched on the face
and having to defend yourself and sorry
it's different completely different yeah
so for example when this my when my son
done the those competitions and stuff
now I see him in like in the summer time
running in the swim pool he's walking
around literally confident
he's actually he has achieved confidence
through this is one of the key ways to
achieve proper confidence so if you want
to debilitate the Muslim Community tell
them you can't do things that the
majority Community are doing which
actually empowers them you'll find that
the trend is not Muhammad hijab is
looking for the easy
fatwas you will know and all my friends
will know every single person will know
yeah that I was praying on and off when
I was 14 to
17 because I wasn't fully religious at
that time and whatever yeah so the H
position actually IB Tam's position h i
Tam said that if you try and re repeat
the prayers yeah it's not even valid
valid no but the the other three schools
of thought which is not the school the H
school that I could easily follow say
know you have to repeat the prayers I
was praying 20 times a day because I
wanted to make sure that I you know
followed
that have repeat everything I I want to
do this all in one year so I try to do
three prayers plus one prayer either the
five prayers I do or four prayers plus
uh 14 15 16 17 I done all of that I was
praying 20 times a day 22 trying to do
22 23 times a day you opted for the
harder position so when it comes to when
it comes to Salah when it comes to
things like that when it comes to I I
don't really like to take the easier
opinion because if there's a verse in
the but what the trend is you'll find
that if there's something which is not
on that level at all not prayers not the
Five Pillars not the not any of that
stuff but at the same time it's
empowering the Muslim Community to a
point where we are actually in survival
mode right mhm we're in survival mode
don't tell me not to tell the Muslim
Community that we need journalists and
that we need to speak to women don't
bring us there because if you do this to
us you're going to debilitate us and the
Zionist are going to come they need
journalists as well but they need
journalists who know how to box man up
as well exactly but that's why I'm
saying that's why I'm actually very
proud of the the Muslim Brothers here in
because for my understanding all of us
in the dawa have some experience in this
absolutely every single one of us have
some experience you know because you
have to have had that experience if you
grow up in in a state everyone someone
rough them up so everyone now I'm
walking in the street with my friends
and I feel like alhamdulillah this guy's
going to if this guy tries to attack him
he's going to fight back yeah if he goes
off the he will defin he will definitely
fight back you know whether he win or
lose that's a different story We you
like hickon Gracie said in his book very
good book called Breathe by the way he
said that you can't guar there's no
dishonor in losing there's dishonor in
not fighting in in being a coward
there's there is dishonor in that the
Quran mentioned that so we you cannot
Safeguard yourself from cowardice from a
sedentary hypothetical theoretical
perspective and if you talking about
just Jiu-Jitsu by itself for example I I
think it's all well and good but it's
probably not enough to cross the
threshold no it's a great start and and
will definitely give you an edge in a
situation where there's cloes involved
and grappling and locks and stuff like
that but you you need striking because
the thing is like bottom positions
almost all the bottom positions become
I'm not going to say redundant but
like's say spider guard you're going to
do that in the streets SP hold the hold
the guard and the guy's going to punch
you up even in the guard the normal
guard put
y x guard you can you can transition to
a nice like single it's still long
though is no but yeah there's a lot of
things which are not necessarily
applicable at all even like if some
people have done heel Hooks and stuff
and they've made it work in May but
really and truly if you don't get the
angle right in heel hooks the guy's
going to punch you a black belt will
become a white belt with punches and not
only that BR how much how much
technicality can you do on a half guard
on a street fight on a concrete there's
not much you on the top bottom bottom
yeah bottom is really problematic it's
problematic all the bottom positions
kind of kind of become defunct
want to be bot so yeah you definitely
need more than grappling grappling is a
great start it gives you that edge it'll
give you that advantage over someone who
doesn't know any grappling but yeah
learning combat Sport and striking
especially and knowing how to defend
yourself and throw a right and a left
and being is very important and if
you're so stly against it so after all
that's being said at least do Freestyle
Wrestling and dju these two that
combination would get you somewhere
where you you can defend yourself it's
true and the worst and the worst thing
you can or do that's another
option they can they punching or
even combat yeah they punch they
punch oh yeah they do yeah they punch
and kick and everything whatever you do
don't do nothing that's yeah that's what
we don't want you to I would say it's so
blameworthy I don't want to say it's
because it's not my job I'm not a Muti
here but it's so blameworthy bro for a
man not to be able to I can't imagine
bro like if I was a man like I'm the
same as my wife in Being able to defend
myself if I have the same level of
ability being how could I live with M I
would rather die actually I actually
would rather die yeah we have the I'm
not going to lie bro we have the
yeah definitely but look wrapping up bro
yeah so did you get a ruling for acting
as well the acting thing the shik looked
at it and he's he said I have to look at
the whole series and stuff he didn't
give it he didn't give it a full
endorsement yet but he didn't say it's
Haram either okay so so your critics
like BL what's next then no the acting
thing no but that's it I mean you're
going to Only See Me compromise on Far
matters you'll never see me compromise
on usly matters compromise in the sense
that if there's a let's say a minority
opinion or if there's musah thing for
the empowerment of the Muslim Community
yeah I think we all do it we actually
all do it car insurance as I mentioned
is the guess best example all of us do
car insurance don't care we don't even
think about it has do you feel guilty
when you drive a car say I car insurance
no one no one feels guilty anymore about
it because it's become normal now but
let's be honest Hijra hij is another
ruling a lot of them say it's w to leave
you're here you're not say the only
condition of being here is do da
absolutely yeah so where's the da going
to happen you know's there's so many
ruler that can bring that people don't
just they don't give a damn look uh
student loans riba it's it's potentially
riba it is potentially at least riba
okay student loans but no because
education is empowerment we know it's so
if you're happy to put your son your
daughter through a university program
with student loans and you're willing to
play the mus card and you're willing to
take which it is because not there's no
question then you're telling me what a
man I I actually postulate I espouse the
fact that a
man is better off and and his wag of
protecting himself being able to fight
is a greater W than him having a degree
because you know for
example that men are protected from
maintainers of women because what Allah
has given one that he hasn't given the
other and he also what they they spend
over the women right so there's two
reasons one of them is that Allah made
them protectors and maintainers and then
he talks about the money so money is
important okay get a degree for money
but to actually be able to in the first
place so come on bro like I mean the
fact that we're even talking about this
and the and the people who would have
the criticisms would make those
compromises they have had student loan
they going the car with insurance
they're not doing Hijra and they
probably follow the opinion that brother
be quiet sorry to say you have your you
do your thing I do my thing you do your
thing I you can agree to disagree and
and and I have done anyway because I
want ask one of the greatest Scholars
living Scholars of today I could argue
the greatest is Zak and I considers him
to be one of the greatest Scholars ofday
inde so at the end of the day I've done
my part if you don't if not convinced
you don't have to be that's the thing
you do your thing I do my think my sons
uh my sons inshallah my my friends those
who follow this will have an advantage
over the ones who don't all day long
they will have an advantage that's
that's not even a debate yeah they will
have an advantage and it's up to you
what you want to do with that but they
will have an advantage that's not even a
debate but yeah man Y where else is next
that's it that's it I think we've given
him a really good
session how long have we been speaking
for I don't a half 1 Hour 4 yeah that's
the perfect time so I think at this
point covered a lot yeah we did have
covered a lot we'll put up I think
there's not much that we need to yeah so
let's conclude so I will say that since
we've spoken about so many things um
yeah including MMA and da and obviously
first let me ask you is there anything
that you're going to come out with next
is there anything that you're any so
ramadan's around the corner so I think
we're all busy with Ramadan with our
respective organizations fundraising and
events but um definitely more
International assignments let's see what
uh happens in the year of 2025 in terms
of the um Affairs I mean I did
Afghanistan I did Bangladesh I did Syria
because mad seismic political shifts and
changes were happening so if we see more
of that in the new year uh in in the
Gregorian New Year you'll see me in
those countries without a shadow of a
doubt so fundraising fundraising I know
I know you're going to be busy with
sapiens we going to be busy with five
pillars it's just it's just that time of
the year isn't it where we have to kind
of prioritize well I'm sure the Muslim
Community after they've seen your
experience in Syria and stuff like that
there's no question they're going to
they're going to be giving a lot of
money to
they know what this is we talk about mus
for Muslims emping the Muslims yeah we
saw some seismic political events in
Bangladesh in Syria in Afghanistan so if
more of these events happen in the year
ahead you will no doubt see me there on
the ground reporting doing interviews
and podcasts with the key people the key
officials short films I think is
relevant and absolutely necessary to con
to connect the Muslims of the West with
the struggles of the Muslims in these
said countries there needs to be a
synergy there needs to be uh you know an
immersion between the two in being
involved in each other's Affairs because
verily we're need to and if people want
to donate to five pillar five pills
uk.com donate that's it I'm sure they're
going to be already they've already
written it I think I think now one of
them is actually paid the money fuk.com
donate so yeah so so we're expecting a
busy year ahead I mean just in 2024
alone we did Syria Afghanistan
Bangladesh Robert went to the US Robert
went to Lebanon so we've done six
foreign assignments and foreign
assignments are hard I'm telling you
it's not easy to go to a country and
land certain interviews with key people
anyone can go to a country and film
content but you want to be going there
and speaking to the key people of these
events uh for example in Afghanistan I
spoke to the administration the
leadership there same with Syria same in
Bangladesh and that's the type of
content people want to see people want
to see a a conservative Muslim Islamic
media Outlet be on the ground be in this
very same place that the mainstream
media are so yeah I'm expecting a busy
year ahead and if you can support five p
in any shape of form we'd be very much
appreciated and the same goes for
sapience and all the other brothers and
all the other different organizations
that do fantastic work may Allah bless
you and and you guys are um free to do
that and I hope you do with both saens
and with uh Five Pillars we going to
expect so many things from him because
he's rough and he's ready on that we
conclude
hey you are you wasting your time on
social media again your brothers and
sisters in Islam net from Norway are
establishing a Masid a dawa Center
establishing a Masid to convey The
Message of Islam is one of the best
Deeds a Muslim can do there's a huge
need for it in Norway you know this and
I know this so that makes the reward
even greater so give generously and
Allah will give you even more